README.md, before:

# `|>` playground-elm

[![release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/ccamel/playground-elm.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/ccamel/playground-elm/releases)
[![MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/licence-MIT-lightgrey.svg?style=flat)](https://tldrlegal.com/license/mit-license)
[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.io/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fccamel%2Fplayground-elm.svg?type=shield)](https://app.fossa.io/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fccamel%2Fplayground-elm?ref=badge_shield)
[![build-status](https://github.com/ccamel/playground-elm/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ccamel/playground-elm/actions/workflows/build.yml)
[![quality-grade](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/05944c94318b4da3b8f438f8d441d869)](https://app.codacy.com/gh/ccamel/playground-elm/dashboard?branch=main)
[![ELM](https://img.shields.io/badge/elm-0.19.1-blue.svg?style=flat&logo=elm)](http://elm-lang.org/)
<a href="https://bulma.io/"><img height=20px src="https://bulma.io/assets/images/made-with-bulma.png" alt="made with bulma"></a>
[![pnpm](https://img.shields.io/badge/pnpm-%234a4a4a.svg?style=flat&logo=pnpm&logoColor=f69220)](https://pnpm.io)
[![git3moji](https://img.shields.io/badge/gitmoji-%20😜%20😍-FFDD67.svg?style=flat-square)](https://gitmoji.carloscuesta.me)
[![StackShare](https://img.shields.io/badge/tech-stack-0690fa.svg?style=flat&logo=stackshare)](https://stackshare.io/ccamel/playground-elm)
[![Demo](https://img.shields.io/badge/play-demo!-b30059.svg?style=flat)](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/)

> My playground I use for playing with fancy and exciting technologies. This one's for [elm][].

## 🎯 Purpose

The purpose of this playground is to explore, study and assess the [elm][] language — a delightful language for reliable
webapps.

[![https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/](./screenshot.webp)](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/)

The showcases are intended to be:

- **simple**: Fairly simple and understandable. Every showcase is implemented in a single elm file.
- **exploratory**:
  - _Highlight_ some aspects of the [elm][] language, like immutability, reactiveness, performance and interoperability
    with other JS libraries and CSS frameworks.
  - _Explore_ some architectural/design patterns around reactive static/serverless [SPA][]
- **playable**: As much as possible, provides a useful and enjoyable content.

## 🍿 Showcases

Visit the :small_blue_diamond: [demo site](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/) and play in your browser.

The demo is a pure [SPA][] (100% clientside application) written in [elm][].

List of showcases:

- [terrain](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#terrain): A retro-inspired endless terrain flyover, featuring a procedurally generated 1D landscape, rendered in [SVG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalable_Vector_Graphics).

- [glsl](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#glsl): A dynamic [WebGL](https://www.khronos.org/webgl/) electricity effect created with [GLSL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenGL_Shading_Language) shaders, featuring interactive 3D rotation with smooth inertia.

- [soundWave toggle](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#sound-wave-toggle): A simple sound wave toggle button
  rendered in [SVG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalable_Vector_Graphics).

- [dApp](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#dapp): A straightforward decentralized application (dApp) that
  interfaces with various wallets, utilizing [EIP-6963](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6963).

- [asteroids](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#asteroids): A simple clone of the classic game Asteroids,
  implemented in [Elm][] using the
  [Entity Component System (ECS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entity_component_system) pattern, rendered with
  [SVG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalable_Vector_Graphics).

- [term](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#term): A web-based terminal that evaluates JavaScript code using
  [Elm ports](https://guide.elm-lang.org/interop/ports.html) for interactivity.

- [physics](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#physics-engine): A straightforward physics engine utilizing the
  [Verlet Integration](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Verlet_integration) algorithm, rendered on an HTML5 canvas.

- [maze](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#maze): A maze generator crafted using the
  [recursive backtracking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maze_generation_algorithm#Recursive_backtracker) algorithm.

- [digital clock](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#digital-clock): A digital clock demo, visually represented
  using [SVG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalable_Vector_Graphics).

- [lissajous](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#lissajous): Animation of
  [Lissajous](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lissajous_curve) figures, depicted in
  [SVG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalable_Vector_Graphics).

- [calc](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#calc): A basic calculator designed for simple arithmetic operations.

## 🛠 Building and Running

### Elm Version

This project targets Elm `0.19.1`.

### Prerequisites

Be sure to have the following properly installed:

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/ru/) `v22.20` ([lts/jod](https://nodejs.org/en/download/archive/v22.20.0))
- [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/) `v10.15`

### Build

The project now relies on [parceljs][], a web application bundler which handles [elm][] builds at free.

At first, all the node packages this project depends on must be installed locally. This can be done with the following
command:

```bash
pnpm install
```

The build can be launched with:

```bash
pnpm build
```

Then, open `./dist/index.html` file in your browser.

If you prefer, the site can be published by a local HTTP server. In this mode, if any change is detected, the build of
the project will be started again, and the site automatically updated in the browser; which is nice during the
development phases.

The publication is launched with the following command:

```bash
pnpm serve
```

The site is accessible through the `http://localhost:1234` endpoint.

## 🔋 Technologies

- [`elm`](http://elm-lang.org/): ELM

  With the following (main and non exhaustive) packages:

  - [Chadtech/elm-vector](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/Chadtech/elm-vector/latest/)
  - [avh4/elm-color](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/avh4/elm-color/latest/)
  - [cuducos/elm-format-number](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/cuducos/elm-format-number/latest/)
  - [elm-explorations/markdown](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/elm-explorations/markdown/latest/)
  - [simonh1000/elm-colorpicker](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/simonh1000/elm-colorpicker/latest/)
  - [joakin/elm-canvas](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/joakin/elm-canvas/latest/)
  - [wsowens/term](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/wsowens/term/latest/)
  - [MacCASOutreach/graphicsvg](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/MacCASOutreach/graphicsvg/latest/)
  - [harmboschloo/elm-ecs](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/harmboschloo/elm-ecs/latest/)
  - [BrianHicks/elm-particle](https://github.com/BrianHicks/elm-particle)
  - [elm-explorations/webgl](https://github.com/elm-explorations/webgl)
  - [nphollon/geo3d](https://github.com/nphollon/geo3d)

- [`parceljs`](https://parceljs.org/): Web application bundler
- [`bulma`](https://bulma.io/): The modern CSS framework

## 📜 License

[MIT][] © [Chris Camel][]

[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.io/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fccamel%2Fplayground-elm.svg?type=large)](https://app.fossa.io/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fccamel%2Fplayground-elm?ref=badge_large)

[elm]: http://elm-lang.org/
[parceljs]: https://parceljs.org/
[spa]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single-page_application
[chris camel]: https://github.com/ccamel
[mit]: https://tldrlegal.com/license/mit-license

Commit message:

:memo: Improve README (quick start, prerequisites, contributing)

README.md, after:

# `|>` playground-elm

[![release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/ccamel/playground-elm.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/ccamel/playground-elm/releases)
[![MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/licence-MIT-lightgrey.svg?style=flat)](https://tldrlegal.com/license/mit-license)
[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.io/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fccamel%2Fplayground-elm.svg?type=shield)](https://app.fossa.io/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fccamel%2Fplayground-elm?ref=badge_shield)
[![build-status](https://github.com/ccamel/playground-elm/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ccamel/playground-elm/actions/workflows/build.yml)
[![quality-grade](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/05944c94318b4da3b8f438f8d441d869)](https://app.codacy.com/gh/ccamel/playground-elm/dashboard?branch=main)
[![ELM](https://img.shields.io/badge/elm-0.19.1-blue.svg?style=flat&logo=elm)](http://elm-lang.org/)
<a href="https://bulma.io/"><img height=20px src="https://bulma.io/assets/images/made-with-bulma.png" alt="made with bulma"></a>
[![pnpm](https://img.shields.io/badge/pnpm-%234a4a4a.svg?style=flat&logo=pnpm&logoColor=f69220)](https://pnpm.io)
[![git3moji](https://img.shields.io/badge/gitmoji-%20😜%20😍-FFDD67.svg?style=flat-square)](https://gitmoji.carloscuesta.me)
[![StackShare](https://img.shields.io/badge/tech-stack-0690fa.svg?style=flat&logo=stackshare)](https://stackshare.io/ccamel/playground-elm)
[![Demo](https://img.shields.io/badge/play-demo!-b30059.svg?style=flat)](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/)

> My playground I use for playing with fancy and exciting technologies. This one's for [elm][].

## 🎯 Purpose

The purpose of this playground is to explore, study and assess the [elm][] language — a delightful language for reliable
webapps.

[![https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/](./screenshot.webp)](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/)

The showcases are intended to be:

- **simple**: Fairly simple and understandable. Every showcase is implemented in a single elm file.
- **exploratory**:
  - _Highlight_ some aspects of the [elm][] language, like immutability, reactiveness, performance and interoperability
    with other JS libraries and CSS frameworks.
  - _Explore_ some architectural/design patterns around reactive static/serverless [SPA][]
- **playable**: As much as possible, provides a useful and enjoyable content.

## 🍿 Showcases

Visit the :small_blue_diamond: [demo site](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/) and play in your browser.

The demo is a pure [SPA][] (100% clientside application) written in [elm][].

List of showcases:

- [terrain](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#terrain): A retro-inspired endless terrain flyover, featuring a procedurally generated 1D landscape, rendered in [SVG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalable_Vector_Graphics).

- [glsl](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#glsl): A dynamic [WebGL](https://www.khronos.org/webgl/) electricity effect created with [GLSL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenGL_Shading_Language) shaders, featuring interactive 3D rotation with smooth inertia.

- [soundWave toggle](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#sound-wave-toggle): A simple sound wave toggle button
  rendered in [SVG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalable_Vector_Graphics).

- [dApp](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#dapp): A straightforward decentralized application (dApp) that
  interfaces with various wallets, utilizing [EIP-6963](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6963).

- [asteroids](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#asteroids): A simple clone of the classic game Asteroids,
  implemented in [Elm][] using the
  [Entity Component System (ECS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entity_component_system) pattern, rendered with
  [SVG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalable_Vector_Graphics).

- [term](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#term): A web-based terminal that evaluates JavaScript code using
  [Elm ports](https://guide.elm-lang.org/interop/ports.html) for interactivity.

- [physics](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#physics-engine): A straightforward physics engine utilizing the
  [Verlet Integration](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Verlet_integration) algorithm, rendered on an HTML5 canvas.

- [maze](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#maze): A maze generator crafted using the
  [recursive backtracking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maze_generation_algorithm#Recursive_backtracker) algorithm.

- [digital clock](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#digital-clock): A digital clock demo, visually represented
  using [SVG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalable_Vector_Graphics).

- [lissajous](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#lissajous): Animation of
  [Lissajous](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lissajous_curve) figures, depicted in
  [SVG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalable_Vector_Graphics).

- [calc](https://ccamel.github.io/playground-elm/#calc): A basic calculator designed for simple arithmetic operations.

## 🛠 Building and Running

### Quick start

```bash
pnpm install
pnpm serve
```

### Prerequisites

Be sure to have the following properly installed:

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/ru/) `v22.20` ([lts/jod](https://nodejs.org/en/download/archive/v22.20.0))
- [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/) `v10.15`

### Development / Build

The project relies on [parceljs][], a web application bundler which handles [elm][] builds.

Install dependencies and run the common commands:

```bash
pnpm install    # install dependencies
pnpm serve      # development server
pnpm build      # production build (output in ./dist)
pnpm lint       # run linting/format checks
```

The development server serves the app on <http://localhost:1234>.

When running the dev server, changes are automatically rebuilt and reloaded in the browser.

### Contributing

Contributions are welcome — fork the repo, make changes, and open a PR. For local development, run `pnpm install` and
`pnpm serve` to preview your changes.

## 🔋 Technologies

- [`elm`](http://elm-lang.org/): ELM

  With the following (main and non exhaustive) packages:

  - [Chadtech/elm-vector](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/Chadtech/elm-vector/latest/)
  - [avh4/elm-color](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/avh4/elm-color/latest/)
  - [cuducos/elm-format-number](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/cuducos/elm-format-number/latest/)
  - [elm-explorations/markdown](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/elm-explorations/markdown/latest/)
  - [simonh1000/elm-colorpicker](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/simonh1000/elm-colorpicker/latest/)
  - [joakin/elm-canvas](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/joakin/elm-canvas/latest/)
  - [wsowens/term](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/wsowens/term/latest/)
  - [MacCASOutreach/graphicsvg](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/MacCASOutreach/graphicsvg/latest/)
  - [harmboschloo/elm-ecs](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/harmboschloo/elm-ecs/latest/)
  - [BrianHicks/elm-particle](https://github.com/BrianHicks/elm-particle)
  - [elm-explorations/webgl](https://github.com/elm-explorations/webgl)
  - [nphollon/geo3d](https://github.com/nphollon/geo3d)

- [`parceljs`](https://parceljs.org/): Web application bundler
- [`bulma`](https://bulma.io/): The modern CSS framework

## 📜 License

[MIT][] © [Chris Camel][]

[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.io/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fccamel%2Fplayground-elm.svg?type=large)](https://app.fossa.io/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fccamel%2Fplayground-elm?ref=badge_large)

[elm]: http://elm-lang.org/
[parceljs]: https://parceljs.org/
[spa]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single-page_application
[chris camel]: https://github.com/ccamel
[mit]: https://tldrlegal.com/license/mit-license
